---
layout: post
title: "OS X Setup"
date: "2005-11-19T23:12:00+01:00"
comments: false
categories: 
---

<p>I recently setup my PowerBook from scratch again; some quick notes, basically for myself but maybe useful for others. I will update it as I add more and more stuff I had but didn&#8217;t remember to move initially.</p>

<h3>Mac OS X Tiger installation</h3>

<ul>
<li>Remember to select &#8220;Customize&#8221;</li>
<li>Deselect printer drivers I don&#8217;t need</li>
<li>The same for unnecessary languages</li>
<li>Select X (it doesn&#8217;t hurt)</li>
<li>Start installation</li>
<li>Install Developer Tools (XCode) from Tiger install DVD</li>
<li>Perform Software Update</li>
<li>Reboot</li>
</ul>

<p>After the reboot, I make some customizations:</p>

<ul>
<li>By default, the computer name is set to some default such as &#8220;User Name&#8217;s PowerBook G4&#8221;. The place to change this is the Sharing preference pane. </li>
<li><p>I have no use at all for Dashboard, so I make sure it wastes no memory or CPU cycles:</p>

<p><code>defaults write com.apple.dashboard mcx-disabled -boolean YES</code></p>

<p><code>killall Dock</code></p></li>
<li><p>I don&#8217;t care much for Spotlight, either. While I still make up my mind whether it&#8217;s going to share Dashboard&#8217;s fate, I make sure that I have one folder (in my case, it&#8217;s <code>~/tmp</code>) that is neither indexed by Spotlight nor catalogued by QuickSilver.</p></li>
<li>Change F1-F12 to control software features (in Keyboard preferences); this enables the function keys to work as you would expect them to (which means without having to press Fn. This makes sense on a notebook only.)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Applications</h3>

<p>Next, I install my favorite applications:</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://quicksilver.blacktree.com/">QuickSilver</a>, the most important tool of all. Without it, I can not really use a Mac anymore. I set the Spotlight hotkey to something different and use Command-Space to invoke QuickSilver</li>
<li>iTerm, my Terminal replacement of choice</li>
<li>Emacs, as <a href="http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/unix_open_source/carbonemacspackage.html">provided by Apple</a>. Make sure to remove <code>Contents/Resources/site-lisp/site-start.d/carbon-emacs-japanese-*.el</code> unless you&#8217;re Japanese.</li>
<li><a href="http://www.ragingmenace.com/software/menumeters/index.html">MenuMeters</a>, a menubar extension that displays essential system information; I&#8217;ve become so used to it that something feels wrong if I use a Mac without it.</li>
<li>Eclipse; the version 3.2 milestones work fine for me.</li>
<li>DarwinPorts has replaced Fink for me; it provides easy access to command line and other Unix tools</li>
<li>ecto, the excellent blogging client I use to write this entry</li>
<li>NetNewsWire, my RSS/Atom news reader</li>
<li>Adium, multi-protocol IM client</li>
<li>Firefox, seldomly used here, but useful to have around if pages don&#8217;t work in the browsers I usually use</li>
<li>goPod, to remove the stupid EU volume limit on my iPod after each firmware update</li>
<li>getTunes, to get music off other running iTunes installations on a local net </li>
<li>JHymn, to remove Apple&#8217;s DRM</li>
<li>Microsoft Office, to remain compatible with the rest of the world (<em>sigh</em>)</li>
<li>Lotus Notes, although I don&#8217;t use it very often anymore (I access our Domino server via the Web or through IMAP/POP)</li>
<li>MPlayer OS X, multi-format video player</li>
<li>OmniDiskSweeper, to find huge and useless files</li>
<li>OmniGraffle, the world&#8217;s best diagramming tool</li>
<li>OmniWeb, the world&#8217;s best Web browser</li>
<li>OmniOutliner, seldomly used, but comes as part of Omni&#8217;s productivity package</li>
<li>RealPlayer, not sucking that much on the Mac</li>
<li>TypeIt4Me, a nice way to save on keystrokes</li>
<li>Skype, for being able to those who like it</li>
<li>Windows Media Player, to play stuff encoded wrongly.</li>
<li><a href="http://www.scifihifi.com/cocoalicious/">Cocoalicious</a>, a del.icio.us client</li>
<li><a href="http://cocoamysql.sourceforge.net/">CocoaMySQL</a>, a database UI for MySQL</li>
</ul>

<h3>Restoring Settings</h3>

<p>Most decent Mac OS X applications keep their settings somewhere under <code>~/Library/Application Support</code>. For NetNewsWire, ecto, and Adium, copying the respective subdirectories to a new installation works perfectly; this is how I move stuff from my old installation to a new one.</p>

<h3>Miscellaneous Packages</h3>

<p>OS X comes with almost every command line tool you need to be productive. Via DarwinPorts, I add</p>

<ul>
<li>subversion</li>
<li>openssh (I had some timeout problems with the ssh bundled by Apple) </li>
<li>rb-rubygems (as a pre-requisite for Rails)</li>
</ul>

<h3>Other stuff</h3>

<p><em>Lock screen</em></p>

<p>One of the few things I missed from Windows was the ability to lock the box via a simple key stroke. Putting </p>

<p><code>/System/Library/CoreServices/Menu\ Extras/User.menu/Contents/Resources/CGSession -suspend</code> </p>

<p>on a QuickSilver trigger does the trick.</p>

<p><em>Virtual hosts</em></p>

<p>OS X comes with Apache pre-installed, the easiest way to enable it is to switch on &#8220;Personal Web Sharing&#8221; in the Sharing preferences pane. To simplify sandboxed Web development, I use a very neat script called &#8220;virtualhost.sh&#8221; which you can get <a href="http://www.patrickgibson.com/utilities/virtualhost/">here</a>; it essentially turns setting up a new virtual host including a host name entry into a 0.5 second affair.</p>

<p><em>MySQL</em></p>

<p>MySQL is now trivially easy to set up on OS X, since there&#8217;s a Mac installer package. If it doesn&#8217;t actually have to serve any DBs, it consumes almost no resources, so I just leave it up and running (i.e. I install the startup item and the preference pane). Changing the root password is mandatory, the easiest way I have found is:</p>

<pre><code> /usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql -u root
set password for root@localhost=password('whatever');
</code></pre>


