---
layout: post
title: "iPhone"
date: "2007-11-18T20:04:00+01:00"
comments: false
categories: 
---

<p>Of course I got an iPhone pretty much immediately after it was released in Germany &#8212; and the quick review is: I love it. </p>

<p>There are lots of silly and annoying things: no cut&#38;paste, no iChat (only a text message app that looks like it), no way to use the iPhone to get my laptop online, no way to sync without a cable (despite having Bluetooth), no way to search emails or contacts, no GPS, no way to use SMTP over SSL without an official certificate, no way to store passwords (including those for T-Mobile&#8217;s hotspots, which is just ridiculous) &#8230;</p>

<p>All of this doesn&#8217;t change my opinion for a second: I&#8217;ve owned, among others, pretty much every Nokia Communicator, an MDA and various other gadgets &#8212; this is by far the best UI, the first time I have <em>really</em> usable email, brilliant no-hassle headset integration, perfect synchronization (at least with a Mac), in summary: without a doubt the best smartphone in existence. If you have any chance, go get one.</p>

<section class="comments">



<div class="comment" id="comment-1524">
On <a href="#comment-1524" title="Permalink to this comment">November 21, 2007 10:38 PM</a>, Martin Papproth
said:
<p>Stefan, you know, I can&#8217;t let this uncommented&#8230; :-)</p>

<p>For sure the iPhone is very good Smartphone in terms of it&#8217;s features.
It has a very good UI, no doubt. The whole touch screen concept and the responsiveness are really unique and cool.
Even more I love the way in which you can use the browser: double-tipping in order to zoom in and out of a html-block is very convenient.</p>

<p>But on the other hand:
- (currently) no way to extend the functionality in a seemless way; I doubt that a javascript-based API will be able to provide the same look and feel (as of the embedded native apps)
- the virtual qwertz-touchscreen keyboard and also the ITU keypad cannot be operated blindly, because there&#8217;s no tactile feedback :-I
- no possibility to enhance the memory
- battery can&#8217;t be swapped
- no standard plugs/jacks for accessories; (for e.g. for connecting a really good headset)
- the audio performance is poor (especially in handsfree-mode)
- after 1/2 day use and lunch break your hi-gloss front-window looks as appetizing as a used latte macchiato glass ;-)
- the T-mobile contractual terms and conditions are just ridiculous</p>


<div class="comment" id="comment-1525">
On <a href="#comment-1525" title="Permalink to this comment">November 25, 2007 10:53 AM</a>, <a href="/en/staff/st/">Stefan Tilkov</a>
said:
<p>All true &#8230; and none of it changes my opinion ;-) It really seems quite similar to the iPod vs. other MP3 players &#8212; there are lots that are better in terms of functionality, but the combination of usability, style, quality, features and &#8220;coolness&#8221; just sets Apple&#8217;s device apart.</p>


</section>

